---
name: Tuur Van Balen
name_ja: トゥール・ヴァン・バレン
position: visiting_researcher
---
Tuur Van Balen is an artist and researcher based in London, working with film sculpture, and sound. 

His collaborative art practice with Revital Cohen explores processes of production as cultural, personal, and political practices. Their practice could be thought of as ‘situated’, where the making of the work is performed within particular networks. The extraction of minerals has been a long-standing interest, followed by the many forms of reality generated by the gambling industry. Animal bodies (human or otherwise) are a recurring consideration; in particular how these are shaped by the situations in which they operate. Rehearsals seem to return as well.  

Recent exhibitions took place at Mostyn Gallery, Llandudno; Ghost 2565, Bangkok; Serpentine, London; Bodies of Water, 13th Shanghai Biennale; Palazzo delle Esposizioni, Rome; Walker Art Center, Minneapolis; The Renaissance Society, Chicago; Para Site, Hong Kong; HKW in Berlin and Congo International Film Festival, Goma. Their monograph ‘Not What I Meant but Anyway’ was published by Columbia Books on Architecture and the City (2022) and their work is in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art, New York and M+ Museum, Hong Kong, among others. 

Tuur is also a part reader Reader at Goldsmiths, working between the School of Design and the School of Art. He is part of the Choreographic Research Unit and the Critical Ecologies Research Stream.
